[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi, I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard
host of "Mystery Teachings."
But today, we're going to
meditate on the archetypes
of the Devil and the Tower.
Together, they help us
face our shadow side,
so that we can awaken
to our total self
and break free from the bondage
of false limitations and ego.
The Devil also awakens a
sense of humor and mirth
in our lives, while the
Tower brings us a bolt
from the blue that catalyzes
rebirth and rapidly releases us
from false mindsets.
Well, here's the
formula to follow
for invoking these two
archetypes, the Devil
and the Tower, into your life.
We'll first work with
one card at a time,
beginning with the Devil.
So once you're ready, find
the Devil card in your deck
and take it out.
Place this card in front
of you at eye level.
You could be sitting
on a meditation stool
or cushion and place that card
in front of you on a table,
so that it's upright,
and then get yourself
into a relaxed position and
a light meditative state.
Take several deep breaths.
Relax your body.
Begin to calm and
quiet your mind
down, bringing yourself
to a state of emptiness.
To do this work, we want to
be in a positive, or at least,
a neutral state of being
with nothing disturbing us
emotionally or mentally.
So really take your
time at this point
to bring yourself into
that state of peace
and inner balance.
Once you've established
this state of inner peace,
look at the image of the Devil
card for about 5 to 10 minutes
with your eyes open.
Study its imagery
and its symbolism
and take in the details.
Notice what comes up
with you, what gets
stirred up from your shadow
side and your subconscious,
as you look at this card.
Commit this card to memory
with all of its details.
Ingrain it into your mind.
I'll remain silent now
for the next five minutes
as you know meditate on
the symbolism of the card.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Once you're ready after
those first 5 to 10 minutes,
it's time to take it
inside and work with it
inside your mind with your eyes
closed for another 10 minutes.
Recreate the image
within your mind.
Imagine that the frame
of the card is a doorway,
and on the other
side of that door
is the scenery of
the Devil card.
Build up all the
images and the symbols,
just like you saw in the card.
Really sit with this
and firmly establish
this in your mind
for those 10 minutes.
Once the image is firmly
established in your mind,
then let it come to life.
Walk through the doorway
and enter into the scenery.
Let it take on a
three-dimensional virtual
reality kind of experience.
Engage your active
imagination and use
all five senses to really
bring this setting to life.
To begin with, just
observe for a while.
Notice the characters.
What are they doing?
How are they behaving?
What is the energy
that they emit?
Do they have any messages?
And what is the
part of your shadow
that gets stirred up here?
How can this card help you
recognize your own shadow
side more?
Where are your attachments
or your unexpressed qualities
that you haven't yet
acknowledged within yourself?
What fears does
it reflect to you?
Where have you fallen into
temptation or indulgence?
What is it that you
need to do to take off
the chains that bind you?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Once you've established a
strong connection with this key,
the next step is to
merge with the Devil,
become this archetype.
See yourself as it.
Let it awaken in
you, so that you
can bring your shadow more
fully to a conscious state
and turn it into light.
When you feel integrated
with this energy,
stand up and actually take
on the posture of the Devil.
Assume his archetypal
form and body position,
imagining that you're
kind of hunched
on a stoop with your right
hand up and fingers open,
and the left hand is
holding a torch downwards.
And say this affirmation, "I am
the Lord of the gates of matter
and the child the
forces of time.
I am the shadow that must
be brought to the light."
Allow that to resonate
and to awaken within you,
vibrating all of your
cells to this awakening
and this knowledge.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
When you feel
integrated with that,
we're now going to move on to
the same process with the Tower
card.
So we can put the one card
aside and now take out the Tower
card, place it on the
table, sit in front of it,
so that you can meditate upon it
with your eyes open for about 5
to 10 minutes, and begin to
study its imagery, its symbols.
Notice all the details.
Ingrain this upon your
mind and your memory.
Really take in all the different
aspects of the Tower symbolism,
including the numbers, the
characters, and the state
of the Tower itself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Then after those 5 to 10
minutes with eyes open,
it's time to take it
inside, to close your eyes,
and work with this
image inside your mind.
Recreate the image in your mind.
Build it up, imagining again
that the frame of a card
is like a doorway, and on
the other side of that door
is the imagery, the
setting of this card.
Really firmly establish
this image within your mind
and solidify it through
that process of working
with it for 10 minutes.
And then once you feel it
firmly established in your mind,
let it come to life.
Move through the doorway
into the scenery of the card,
and let it take on a
three-dimensional virtual
reality experience around you.
Use all five of
your senses, what
do you see, what do you
hear, what do you feel.
Is there any smell
or taste in the air?
Observe the setting,
what's happening.
Notice the characters
and what they do.
Feel the energy of the
Tower and its ways of being,
and perhaps, there's a
message here for you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Once you feel a strong
connection with this energy,
the next step is to merge
with the Tower, become
the Tower itself.
Feel your inner self
shaking, and as it shakes,
anything that is no
longer serving you,
any of those old attachments
or false notions,
it's all shaking off
and falling away.
And when you feel this
connection to this energy,
you're going to
stand up and actually
take on the posture
of the Tower,
which is basically
just straight upright,
and assume it's archetypal form
and imagine yourself struck
by lightning and the
ground beneath you shaking
like an earthquake, and
even allow your body
to rumble and shake and
see that as it does,
whatever doesn't serve
you anymore is falling off
of your body as you shake.
And then when you
feel ready, you're
going to state this affirmation.
"I am the Lord of the
hosts of the mighty.
I am the awakener.
I am the rebirth and the
rise of the phoenix."
Feel that affirmation
reverberating
throughout your being,
activating your cells,
and integrating this
energy within you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
When you feel
established with that,
next we're going to take out
both these keys, the Devil
in the Tower, putting
them next to each other
and meditating upon them
together, the Devil on the left
and the Tower on the right.
As you look at
them together, see
how they contrast each other.
Also see how they relate and
how they complement each other
or what's similar
and what's different.
The Devil stimulates your
mirth or sense of humor,
as well as your willingness
to face your shadow
and free yourself
from its bonds.
The Tower stimulates
awakening and transformation.
Finally, we want to
take these energies
and express them
into your outer life.
So ways that we can do that
are to bring the primary colors
into our life, which would
be red for the Tower.
You can work with
black, or sometimes we
also see a blue violet
for the Devil card.
You can bring this into your
environment and your clothing
colors.
Also, remember to meditate daily
upon these symbols and images
for the next week and
work with the affirmations
that we just used.
Contemplate the
meaning of these cards
and how they apply to
your life and then watch
for these archetypes to show
up, both in your dreams, as well
as synchronicities, maybe
through events, maybe
through people, and
analyze their messages.
How does this
apply to your life?
What is it trying to teach you?
Also, especially
pay attention to how
you embody the strengths
and the weaknesses of each
of these keys and
consciously work
to make improvements
in these areas.
And again, realize that as
we work with archetypes,
we will be setting forces
in motion in our life.
So especially here
at this stage,
if you're going to engage
with this experience
at a practical
level, then really
commit to seeing this
all the way through.
Work with each of these
keys in their order.
Don't skip steps.
We're on the homestretch
here, so really
give it your
attention, and see this
all the way through to the end.
Join me again, as
we explore further
into the 22 archetypes
of tarot and how
they can help us to make our
big shift in consciousness.
[MUSIC PLAYING]